Describe how to troubleshoot connectivity problems in  Azure Blob Storage at HTTP level (#15835)
elastic/logstash: docs/static/troubleshoot/ts-azure.asciidoc

[[ts-azure]]
==== Azure Event Hub issues and solutions
 
[discrete] 
[[ts-azure-http]]
===== Event Hub plugin can't connect to Storage blob (input)

*Symptoms* 

> Azure EventHub plugin can't connect to the blob storage:

Reviewer: Azure EventHub can't connect to blob storage

-----
[2024-01-01T13:13:13,123][ERROR][com.microsoft.azure.eventprocessorhost.AzureStorageCheckpointLeaseManager][azure_eventhub_pipeline][eh_input_plugin] host logstash-a0a00a00-0aa0-0000-aaaa-0a00a0a0aaaa: Failure while creating lease store
com.microsoft.azure.storage.StorageException: The client could not finish the operation within specified maximum execution timeout.
-----

> The plugin can't complete the registration phase because can't connect to the Azure Blob Storage configured

Reviewer: Plugin can't complete registration phase because it can't connect to Azure Blob Storage configured

in the plugin `storage_connection` setting.

*Background*

Azure Event Hub plugin can share the offset position of a consumer group with

> other consumers only if configures the Blob Storage connection setting.

Reviewer: other consumers only if Blob Storage connection settings are configured.

> Despite EventHub uses the AMQP protocol to transfer data, the Blob Storage uses a

Reviewer: EventHub uses the AMQP protocol to transfer data, but Blob storage uses a

library which leverages the JDK's http client, `HttpURLConnection`.

> To troubleshoot HTTP connection problems, maybe related to proxy settings, the

Reviewer: To troubleshoot HTTP connection problems, which may be related to proxy settings, the

* Configure {ls} settings to enable the JDK logging.

*Details*

To enable JDK logging on {ls}, needs to:

* Create a properties file with the logging definitions for Java Util Logging (JUL).
* Configure a JVM property to inform JUL to use such definitions file.

*JUL definitions*

Create a file (for example `<LS_HOME>/conf/jul.properties`) to define logging levels, handlers and loggers:

[source,txt]
-----
handlers= java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler,java.util.logging.FileHandler
.level= ALL
java.util.logging.FileHandler.pattern = <USER's LOGS FOLDER>/logs/jul_http%u.log
java.util.logging.FileHandler.limit = 50000
java.util.logging.FileHandler.count = 1
java.util.logging.FileHandler.level=ALL
java.util.logging.FileHandler.maxLocks = 100
java.util.logging.FileHandler.formatter = java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter

java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler.level = INFO # or put FINE
java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler.formatter = java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter

# defines the logger we are interested in
sun.net.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection.level = ALL
-----

With this configuration the log file will be created in a path chosen by the user (`<USER's LOGS FOLDER>/logs/`) and

> the only logger interested is `sun.net.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection`, at every level,

Reviewer: the logger of interest is `sun.net.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection`, at every level,

> Create a file (for example `<LS_HOME>/conf/jul.properties`) to define logging levels, handlers and loggers:
> 
> [source,txt]
> -----
> handlers= java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler,java.util.logging.FileHandler
> .level= ALL
> java.util.logging.FileHandler.pattern = <USER's LOGS FOLDER>/logs/jul_http%u.log
> java.util.logging.FileHandler.limit = 50000
> java.util.logging.FileHandler.count = 1
> java.util.logging.FileHandler.level=ALL
> java.util.logging.FileHandler.maxLocks = 100
> java.util.logging.FileHandler.formatter = java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter
> 
> java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler.level = INFO # or put FINE
> java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler.formatter = java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter
> 
> # defines the logger we are interested in
> sun.net.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection.level = ALL
> -----
> 
> With this configuration the log file will be created in a path chosen by the user (`<USER's LOGS FOLDER>/logs/`) and
> the logger of interest is `sun.net.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection`, at every level,
> from the lowest to the highest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a file that you can user to define logging levels, handlers and loggers.
For example, `<LS_HOME>/conf/jul.properties`.

["source","txt",subs="callouts"]
-----
handlers= java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler,java.util.logging.FileHandler
.level= ALL
java.util.logging.FileHandler.pattern = <USER's LOGS FOLDER>/logs/jul_http%u.log <1>
java.util.logging.FileHandler.limit = 50000
java.util.logging.FileHandler.count = 1
java.util.logging.FileHandler.level=ALL
java.util.logging.FileHandler.maxLocks = 100
java.util.logging.FileHandler.formatter = java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter

java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler.level = INFO # or put FINE
java.util.logging.ConsoleHandler.formatter = java.util.logging.SimpleFormatter

# defines the logger we are interested in
sun.net.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection.level = ALL <2> <3>
-----

<1> The log file will be created in a path defined by the user (`<USER's LOGS FOLDER>/logs/`) 
<2> This configuration enables the `sun.net.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection` logger, and 
<3> sets the logging level to `ALL`. It will log all messages directed to it, from highest to lowest priority.
```

Reviewer 2: Here's how this suggestion looks when implemented in my local build: 

<img width="702" alt="Screen Shot 2024-01-23 at 7 16 00 PM" src="https://github.com/elastic/logstash/assets/35154725/e668c7dc-f3d8-4d15-a0d0-9adaf9bb89dc">

Author: Great @karenzone thanks for great suggestion!

> from the lowest to the highest.

Author: Hi @flexitrev, thanks for checking.
The idea of the sentence is:

```
with the previous definition, we enable the interested logger (sun.net.www.protocol.http.HttpURLConnection) 
to log every message it receives (because of the ALL level). This setting (the being at ALL level) 
means that it logs all messages directed to this logger, from the highest priority to the lowest.
```

*JVM property*

To inform the JUL framework of the selected definitions file a property (`java.util.logging.config.file`) has to be

> valued, and in this context the {ls}'s `config/jvm.properties` come in hand.

Reviewer: evaluated, this is where {ls}'s `config/jvm.properties` come in handy.

Author: Thank's a lot @flexitrev ! All suggestions applied

-----

Plugin can't complete registration phase because it can't connect to Azure Blob Storage configured
in the plugin `storage_connection` setting.

*Background*

Azure Event Hub plugin can share the offset position of a consumer group with
other consumers only if Blob Storage connection settings are configured.
EventHub uses the AMQP protocol to transfer data, but Blob storage uses a
library which leverages the JDK's http client, `HttpURLConnection`.
To troubleshoot HTTP connection problems, which may be related to proxy settings, the
logging level for this part of the JDK has to be increased. The problem is that
JDK uses Java Util Logging for its internal logging needs, which is not configurable
with the standard `log4j2.properties` shipped with {ls}.

*Possible solutions*

* Configure {ls} settings to enable the JDK logging.

*Details*

Steps to enable JDK logging on {ls}:

* Create a properties file with the logging definitions for Java Util Logging (JUL).
* Configure a JVM property to inform JUL to use such definitions file.

*JUL definitions*

> Create a file that you can user to define logging levels, handlers and loggers.

Author: ```suggestion
Create a file that you can use to define logging levels, handlers and loggers.
```

Fix typo
